>> Kyle Simpson: First,
what you need to know, definition.
Scope means where to look for things.
It's the set of rules that helps us
figure out where stuff is found,
how to resolve something.
So that definition should ask, or
should bring up at least
two questions in your mind.
The first question that should come to
your mind is, what are we looking for?
Great question.
The thing we're looking for
is any variable,
any identifier, regardless of
how it's used in our program.
It turns out there's only two
ways that something can be used.
A variable can either show up in a
position where we're retrieving the value
from it, or it can show up in a position
where we're adding the value to it, or
we're setting a value into it.
Those are the only two places a variable
can show up, but wherever it shows up,
that variable belongs to some bucket.
I like to think visually of our program
as a division where every variable is
a colored marble, and this is my
visual way of thinking about it.
It's like sorting all the marbles, so
I put all the red marbles
in the red bucket and
all the blue marbles in the blue bucket,
and the green marbles in the green bucket.
Scope is the set of rules by which
we sort all those marbles, and
when we want the red marble, we know what
bucket to go and get it out of, okay?
So that's the first question,
what are we looking for?
We're looking for the colored marbles.
We're looking for those identifiers, but
there's another more subtle question.
And I wanna take a few
moments to talk about scope
from the perspective of what's going
on inside of the JavaScript engine.
I've already said this, so I already
kinda gave it away, but many of you have
heard JavaScript is an interpreted
language, it's a dynamic language.
So if I were to assert to you,
JavaScript is absolutely,
positively a compiled language, that
might fly against some of your intuition.
You've always been told before
it's an interpreted language, and
I will tell you absolutely, positively,
JavaScript is a compiled language.
So I wanna dig into that for a moment,
because the second question this should
ask is, who's doing the looking?
Who's doing the looking?
Is it just a JavaScript interpreter trying
to find dynamically allocated memory or
something?
Or is there something deeper going on?
And this is really at the heart
of this whole unit of discussion,
is that scope is a compile time process.
That our program does go
through a compile step, and
it is at the compile time that all of
these scope decisions will happen.
We like to think of it being more like
a runtime thing, that JavaScript is
a single pass interpreted program
language, but it really isn't that way.
And I'm gonna point out multiple
points throughout the rest of our
discussion where the difference
can be very dramatic.
The difference where we say, well,
I think that it's in a single pass, and
I think the variable should be this value,
and
it turns out it's something
entirely different.
And you're like, I don't understand where
my thinking is wrong, and that root
thinking problem is that you're thinking
about JavaScript as a single pass, okay?
So JavaScript is absolutely compiled.
[COUGH] Let me dig into that for a moment.
>> Kyle Simpson: When people say
JavaScript is not a compiled language,
it's a dynamic interpreted language,
and they compare it to what is more
traditionally thought of as a compiled
language, like a C++ or a Java.
What they're usually thinking
of is the distribution model for
the end result of the compilation.
They're usually thinking,
well, a compiled language,
I run it through a compiler and I produce
some executable code on the outside, and
then I take that executable code and
I distribute it.
So you think, well, I do that with Java,
I produce byte code,
I do that with C++ and
I produce the binary 1s and 0s.
But with JavaScript,
I don't compile ahead of time and
produce some executable code,
I ship the source code.
So we think our paradigm is, what is
the distribution mode for the program?
Do we distribute it as the executable
code or as the source code?
I remember in CS,
a really long time ago now, but
I remember sitting in CS courses and
having an instructor
essentially intimate that that is the
major difference between the languages.
But I think that's wrong.
I think while that may or
may not be a true validation,
there's nuance there,
even to pick a part there.
But while that may or may not be true,
I don't think that's at all the most
relevant difference between a compiled
language and an interpreted language.
Let me prove to you for just a moment
that Java Script is compiled.
There's multiple ways I could do that.
We could open up the source code for
V8 and we'd find that there's actually
a compiler there, source code for
Mozilla SpiderMonkey, there's a compiler.
But let me prove it to
you more pragmatically.
Have any of you ever had a JavaScript bug,
anybody?
Okay, good, we're all among friends,
we've all written bugs before.
Have any of your bugs ever been
something where you syntactically
did something wrong, like you were missing
a comma, or you left off a curly brace, or
some kind of syntax error that occurred?
Okay, in that scenario,
since we're all nodding our heads,
in that scenario, if you've ever
created a syntax error in a program,
did you ever think to yourself, well,
gee, that syntax error was on line ten.
But when I went to run the program, it did
not run lines one through nine first and
then give me the error on line ten.
When did it give me the error?
Before it ever ran line one, right?
Well, how do you suppose it did that?
How do you suppose JavaScript knew
in advance that there was gonna
be a syntax error on line ten
before it had ever run line one?
There's a very simple
answer to that question,
because the JavaScript engine
compiled your code first.
And the compilation validated the syntax
long before it ever handed off
to some part of the engine to execute.
So at a minimum,
I need to adjust your thinking about
how you process JavaScript programs.
From thinking about this as a single pass,
we go all the way through the program
top to bottom, to thinking about this,
at minimum, as a dual pass.
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK] Are you using
that interchangeably with parsing?
I mean,
it's really just parsing it, right?
Is that the same thing as compiling?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, okay,
that's a great question.
So the question was, am I using
compilation interchangably with parsing?
Yes and no.
The important part of what we're talking
about is the fact that parsing does need
to occur, cuz obviously, parsing needs
to happen for compilation to occur.
But compilation, there's multiple
stages to what we mean by a compiler,
and so I'm gonna digress a little
bit into compiler theory.
I'm one of those people that
actually enjoyed that class.
That was my favorite class in CS,
I loved compiler theory.
I wrote compilers for fun now.
I understand many people
may not be like that, but
my brain seems to like this, right?
So there are multiple
stages to the compiler.
The last step of compilation
is code generation and
linking to create your executable code.
So does that happen with JavaScript?
Or is it just the first stages,
where we have lexing, tokenization, and
parsing into an abstract syntax tree?
Which of those two is true?
There's two ways to answer this question.
First off, at the most base level,
the JavaScript engine absolutely
does code generation.
It absolutely does produce an intermediary
representation from the source code to
the thing that it hands off in
the JavaScript engine, which is actually,
literally in some cases,
called the JavaScript virtual machine.
That's actually akin to a byte code, not
terribly dissimilar from what's handed off
from Java when you compile a Java program,
you produce a byte code.
Now, that byte code that's handed out to
the JavaScript virtual machine is not
portable, it's not platform
independent like it is with Java,
but it is akin to a byte code, okay?
A set of instructions that
are the binary representations.
So it's not literally handing off, say,
an abstract syntax tree, it's actually
a binary intermediate representation.
But modern JavaScript engines are actually
fantastically more complex than what I'm
boiling down now.
Because there's all kinds of things
like jitting and other stuff like that,
JIT is J-I-T, Just-in-Time compilation.
And as a matter of fact, and
this part I don't even fully understand,
even with my knowledge of CS.
I don't fully understand how you can
partially JIT compile a piece of code.
To me it's an all or nothing.
You either compile it or
you don't compile it.
But actually,
modern engines are going through three or
four different JIT passes.
They have a fast JIT, and
then a slower JIT, and an even slower one.
They go through it multiple times and
they figure out more about the program as
they go through it, and
then they trace, well, with runtime.
And then the engine is recompiling
stuff based upon what it knows.
As it sees stuff happen in runtime,
it'll throw away a set of guesses and
recompile another set, and hot swap it in.
There's all kinds of
complexities going on.
So it's actually not even a two pass.
It's very much more complex.
But if we just simplify
it down to the two pass,
there's a single step that compiles,
which does the parsing, produces some
representation of that program that
an execution knows what to do with.
I'm gonna call that an IR, an intermediary
representation, it's like a byte code.
And then there's a second
pass that executes it.
So when I say compile, I mean JavaScript
goes through those two passes.
That help answer that question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so what I'm
asserting is that that first pass has to
occur because parsing has to happen.
Otherwise, we'd never know about a syntax
error on line ten if we were on line one.
As a matter of fact, there's more
proof that the parsing is happening,
because JavaScript has
a set of things which
are enforced in the parsing
stage of the grammar.
They're enforced as what
are called early errors.
For example, in strict mode, if you
have a JavaScript function that has two
different parameters with
the same lexical name.
Like you have function foo, and then you
say a comma a in the function signature,
that's not a syntactic error.
That's totally syntactically valid.
But that is still thrown
as an early static error.
In other words, before the program is
ever run, an error is thrown to tell you,
you're not allowed to have two
parameters of the same name.
That could only happen if there was
first a full pass through the program to
do all the parsing and validation of
the code, and know everything that
they need to know to verify these
parameters are the same, right?
So there has to be that
first pass that occurs.
So all I really want you to do is to just
reset your thinking from
the one pass to the two pass.
First, think about there's this pass
that happens to validate my program,
and it's during that pass that
lexical scope gets set up.
It's during that first
pass that scoping happens.
It is not during the second pass,
which is what most of us have sort
of loosely come to believe, okay?
So JavaScript is absolutely
a compile language.
As a matter of fact, I would make the case
that that compiler architecture that I
just quickly alluded to there is
vastly more sophisticated than
any compiler architecture for
any other language in existence.
Because we're demanding so much more of
JavaScript, and they've come up with all
these different techniques that were
never even relevant to other things.
For the C++ compiler to be a JIT compiler
wouldn't even make sense, right?
Cuz you do all AOT,
it's all ahead-of-time compilation.
So JavaScript has to do a whole lot more,
it's a lot more sophisticated.
Now, [COUGH] I'm gonna make this
statement, there is an asterisk
here when I say JavaScript
organizes its scopes by functions.
That's not entirely true.
We are gonna talk about block
skipping later in this unit.
But for now,
we're gonna simplify things and
say the individual unit of
scope is the function, okay?
So here's a piece of code
that is deceptively simple.
This piece of code doesn't
even look like it does much,
cuz it just makes some variables.
There's no logic or branching or
looping or any of that stuff.
So you'd be inclined to just sort
of skip over it and say, well,
this isn't all that interesting.
I'm probably gonna have this slide up for
20 or 30 minutes,
cuz there's way more to this
than you think there is.
For us to fully unpack what it means for
this to be a two pass system,
to start to rewire our brains to
start to think a little bit more like
the JavaScript engine.
The vast majority of
the complexity of compiler theory
is not stuff we need to
concern ourselves with.
People like me like to obsess about it,
but it's not
necessary that you'd be a compiler
theorist to understand JavaScript.
But there are a few things that you should
be at least moderately aware of, okay?
So I will use a few different terminology,
a few different concepts.
But for the most part, the only thing
we're really concerned with is in
that first pass when we compile the code,
we wanna look for
all the variable declarations and
all the scopes that they get added to.
That's the important part,
don't worry about tokenization or
abstract syntax trees or
any of that other stuff.
All we wanna care about is how do
those buckets get created, and
how do we sort those marbles
into those different buckets?
Make sense?
>> Kyle Simpson: So to do that, I've got
a little trick that I do when I teach this
material, and it's gonna feel silly and
a little bit strange.
If you're listening live or
if you're watching this video later,
even if you're not
actually physically here,
I'm going to encourage you to do this,
even if it seems silly.
I'm gonna take you through a little
exercise here where we have
an out loud conversation.
And the things that we say are gonna
sound a little bit ridiculous,
but it's okay because we're just
doing this all together, all right?
So we're all gonna sound
ridiculous together.
It's a little teacher trick that we
use to help something that's a bit
abstract get stuck virally in your head,
okay?
So I'm just being completely
transparent about it.
It's silly on purpose because it helps
something that you otherwise wouldn't
really think about that much.
It helps it get stuck,
and the important part is not that
you'll ever repeat this exercise.
You'll never actually say
these things ever again.
But the concept will get stuck
virally in your head, okay?
So we're gonna go through a conversation
that the different parts of
the JavaScript engine have.
Fancy word, we're gonna anthropomorphize.
That means to take something that's
not a human and treat it as if it is.
We're gonna anthropomorphize the parts of
the JavaScript engine that are relevant,
and eavesdrop on a conversation that's
occurring as this code is being processed.
And I style it as a conversation so
that we understand the different
responsibilities, and how they're divided.
So that's why we talk as if these are two
different people having a conversation,
and we're gonna go through
this in two passes.
So the first pass through this code, we're
going to be doing that compiling step,
that looking for lexical scope step.
And [COUGH] we're going to be having
a conversation or listening in or
pretending to have a conversation
between these two entities.
The first one would be the compiler
itself, it's actually processing the code.
And the second one is gonna be the scope
manager, that's the kid at the playground
that manages the buckets, and
puts the marbles into the buckets, okay?
These two are gonna have a conversation
as this code is processed, and
the goal is to set up those buckets and
properly sort the marbles.
And that conversation is gonna
start a little something like this.
We're gonna start on line 1, we're gonna
be looking for formal declarations,
formal declarations of variables, and
formal declarations of functions.
Line 1 is a formal variable declaration,
because we see var keyword there.
Line 3 is a formal function declaration
cuz, we see the function keyword there.
There are informal declarations,
which we do not care about,
we're only looking for formal ones, okay?
So we get to line 1, we're the compiler,
and we're gonna be talking
to the scope manager.
We get to line 1, we're gonna say,
I'm the compiler speaking,
hey global scope manager,
because I'm in the global scope, so
I'm talking to the global scope manager.
Hey global scope manager,
I found a formal declaration for foo, and
then I'm gonna ask this question.
I'm gonna say, have you ever heard of him?
Now, the question might seem irrelevant,
but actually,
the question is really important,
because the question lets you in on that
division of responsibility, and
that's important to keep string.
So the compiler is saying,
I don't know whether this variable exists,
who's the only one that can answer
is this marble's ever been found?
The scope manager.
So hey, scope manager,
you ever seen this red marble before?
I have a formal declaration for a variable
called foo, have you ever heard of him?
And there's only two answers,
yes, or no, okay?
In this case, what's the answer gonna be?
>> Speaker 3: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: No, never heard of him,
but now that you mention it,
I'll go ahead and
put that marble into the red bucket.
So now we have a red bucket
with a red marble in it.
The variable foo has been registered
into the global scope, okay?
You notice we didn't pay any attention to
what was going on on the right-hand side,
the equal sign, that's all executable
code, we'll get to that later.
All we care about now is these formal
decorations and sorting out the marbles.